>> Jen: So we had our painting here,
and while I was working on this for
the answer I started to put this together,
and then it was only
later that I realized the d is
actually slightly shorter than b is.
Did anybody else get tripped up by that?
b and
d are not exactly the same height, so
there's an extra row in there perhaps
that you might not have factored in.
That was sort of the one tricky thing
that I found about this, so I did manage
to get mine looking like this,
maybe yours is somewhat close to that.
>> Jen: No, Casey's shaking her head, no.
>> Casey: Not yet.
>> Jen: Not yet, okay.
Casey needs some more time, and
she's totally gonna get it.
I know Brady got it, Jackie, you got it.
Has anybody else get it?
Amy got it, Peter?
>> Peter: I was pretty close.
>> Jen: Pretty close?
>> Peter: Yeah.
>> Jen: Awesome.
Okay, so
here is what the answer looked like here.
The HTML, basically nothing changed.
And then in the CSS here, so
it's basically the same thing
that I already showed you
previously in terms of the formulas
to what types of properties
that I have in here.
The values are obviously different for
this particular painting.
So I gave you the width and
the height for the wrapper.
I made the font size nice and big,
and then we have our display grid.
These were the measurements that I came
up with for the grid template rows and
the grid template columns, and your
measurements may be slightly different.
I don't profess to be super extra
careful as I made those measurements,
but they are pretty close.
The grid gap is about five
pixels in this case, and
I set the background color
to black eventually.
And then, for each one of my grid columns,
in this case it did go through.
I take my little eye dropper, and figure
out exactly the shade of red, blue, and
yellow that I had here, so
those values are reflected here.
If you just said red, blue, or yellow is
your color keyword, that's totally fine.
So you'll see here how I set up
my grid rows on my grid columns,
pretty much as you might expect,
all right?
So probably you all would have gotten
it with just a little bit more time.
It's really nice to know that you
now have this in your back pocket,
that you can create some really wacked-out
lay out with Grid, that's pretty amazing.
I think in my solution here that
my end statement for number nine,
let me just check this real
quick before I start talking.
I did.
One of the things I did here for
number nine, [COUGH] and
I'm gonna point this out
as an interesting problem.
So I'm gonna go back to chapter 9, which
was the painting that we coded together.
>> Jen: If I show that in the browser,
that was the answer that we got earlier.
I actually wrote some media
queries to go along with this.
And so with my Harvard students, when we
do this, we actually take the painting and
flip it upside down, and code it upside
down on a different media query.
Here's an interesting thing that
I've noticed about this when
working here in my browser.
As I start to narrow things down,
it doesn't look like there's any
responsiveness at all in
this particular painting.
What I actually wind up having to do,
and I'm here in Firefox,
you have to right click somewhere and
you go to Inspect Element.
And then, what I wind up having to do is
showing the mobile dimensions like this,
and then you can see the media queries.
I'm not sure why this is, but
it seems to be the way things are.
And so for this media query I
flipped the painting upside down,
I made the background color green to
show you that I actually did that.
So I'll just point that
out to you in the CSS.
>> Jen: So outside of the media query
here, and this, again, is chapter 9,
we're back to painting.css
in the end state.
Outside the media query is sort
of the default desktop values, so
this is not a mobile-first design.
Use the desktop values that we have here.
Then you have a media query here where
I've actually flipped this over, and so
you can see I've just coded
different locations for
those boxes in the media query.
And then,
when I get down here to the bottom,
>> Jen: The very bottom of this,
notice what I've done here.
All I did for my media query, for
the small dimension, was this,
I just said, display: block.
In other words I just disabled display:
grid altogether, so I'll just have these
boxes stacked on top of each other, so
we're no longer dealing with grid at all.
And the background color in this case,
is orange, just to show you that it works.
And if I change the dimensions
here in this view in Firefox,
and you can see that in
fact that's what happens,
we just have the boxes stack
on top of each other, okay?
So this might be something to keep in
mind, that you may have to come in here
in order to test your
various grid layouts, okay?
>> Speaker 4: Question from Josiah.
>> Jen: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: Is there any
reason to not use a span?
>> Jen: There's absolutely
no reason not to use a span.
So one of the alternative syntaxes for
the grid template, sorry, for
the grid rows and the grid columns,
is to use the keyword span, so
1 / span 2 or something like that.
You can totally do it that way
instead of specifying the two numbers.
From my perspective they do
pretty much the same thing,
and I'm lazy, and would prefer not
to type all those extra letters.
But if you prefer that type of syntax,
you're more than welcome to use it.
My teaching philosophy on this has always
been that I can really confuse everybody
in the room by throwing
everything at you at once.
I'd rather have you focus on one syntax
and get to know it really well, and
then at a later point in time you can
pick up the other syntaxes really easily.
>> Speaker 4: Stacy said,
just a comment, she said,
I put the maximum column row value
as a note about each div selector,
that seemed to help,
because counting is hard.
>> Jen: Okay, counting is hard, and
so she did some commenting for that.
That's awesome,
comments are always welcome.
I've never heard from any developer
that code is not commented enough,
and I believe we're all guilty
of not commenting enough.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 4: Julian's asking, why did she
use the min device width
in the media queries?
>> Jen: The minimum device
width in the media queries.
>> Speaker 4: That's why the resizing
doesn't work normal, I guess.
>> Jen: Is that why
the resizing doesn't work?
That could very well be.
>> Speaker 4: Instead of just min what?
>> Jen: So just take out the device, and
then it's gonna work again,
is what he's suggesting?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
>> Jen: Okay, so let's try that.
>> Jen: Oops, get the HTML.
>> Jen: Cool, thanks for
that tip, I didn't know that.
Awesome, thank you very much.